Add Uptime Monitoring Documentation (#10810)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/alerts/uptime-monitoring/automatic-detection.mdx

To avoid creating flaky alerts, the hostname undergoes an "onboarding period" of three days. During this period, we send HTTP requests to the hostname every hour. If the request fails at least three times, the hostname is dropped and re-evaluated after seven days.

<Alert level="info">
Sentry will execute uptime checks against the hostname root path of the most frequently seen URLs. For example, if the most seen URL in your events is `GET https://www.example.com/docs/introduction` the check will be `GET https://www.example.com/`.
</Alert>

## Disabling Automatic Detection
Deleting an alert will disable automatic detection for the entire project linked to the host. This feature can also be turned off globally for the entire organization from the [organization settings](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/settings/organization) page.

Alternatively, the hostname's `robots.txt` can be updated to disallow Sentry:

```txt{tabTitle: Example}{filename: robots.txt}
User-agent: SentryUptimeBot
Disallow: *

> ```

Reviewer: Note that this will just disable detection at the moment, it won't disable an ongoing checker (even in onboarding mode)

---
title: Automatic Detection
sidebar_order: 51
description: "Learn how automatic detection of uptime monitoring works."
---

<Include name="feature-stage-alpha-uptime.mdx" />

> The automatic detection of uptime alerts sets up uptime alerts for the most frequently encountered
> hostnames in all URLs of your error data. This helps ensure that critical hostnames are continuously monitored,
> enhancing the reliability and availability of your web services.

Author: Is this ok?
```suggestion
Automatic detection of uptime monitoring alerts sets up alerts for the most frequently encountered hostname  URLs in error data. This helps ensure that critical hostnames are continuously monitored,
enhancing the reliability and availability of your web services.
```
